>> Steve Kinney: Question answering you
might think is what like ChatgGPT and
Claude do, but like it's actually
you can argue better or worse.
But I would argue it depends on
what you're trying to achieve, so
what's interesting about question
answering is you're like,
when I ask ChatGPT a question,
that's what it does.
No, it does text generation, and
like it's got some nuance where like that
whole assistant you user
thing is like not real.
It's just characters that break up special
tokens that will break up the different
pieces based on how it's trained.
And when we fine tune a model, we'll talk
a little bit about how that looks, but
it's just making up words right now.
You can make up words when you
are trained on all of the Internet and
every book as like anthropic,
like tore them all up and scanned them in.
Google did that a decade ago, so
they got that part over with, but
they are just generating the next
word tuned to a probability of
every public word out there.
Question answering is
a little bit different,
question answering will only use
the context that you give it, so
it's not probabilistically
coming up with the next word.
It is taking whatever body of
text that you handed it and
then doing the math to come up with based
on that context what the answer is.
So like if this is a very
short thing on hot dogs,
my family's going to Chicago next week and
then there was like something, so
like hot dogs were a topic
of conversation in my house.
And so if you ask it something not
about hot dogs, it's not gonna go well,
or even something about hot dogs that's
not in here, which you can argue, well,
that's not good.
Or it's very good if you just wanted
to get understanding about a particular
document.
If it is based on this particular content,
I need to know something and
I don't want you to use the world's
information to answer this question just
based on what I'm showing you.
Then you want question answering
over anything that Claude,
Gemini, GPT-4o what have will give you.
So like again, the answer for
all of these things will give
you like different answers.
I think this is inspired by like there was
some clip that came out recently where
Barack Obama said no one over
the age of eight should eat ketchup.
>> Male: So this seems like good for
like internal company documents or
internal company data
only want to have it,
you don't want it to hallucinate,
make exactly up random stuff.
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly,
you don't want it to use anything else,
not even hallucinate, you just only want
to know based on this data that I have.
And it will only do that in this case and
it will give you
a confidence score as well.
So if we say, where are the first
hot dogs?, stand up here,
these are all things in there, let's go
ahead and run this and see what we get.
Again, this model, if you look at
it coming down off the wire and
is 261 megabytes, so not a giant model,
and there are, if you need something
a little bit more sophisticated,
there are slightly bigger ones.
But could you have this on a single VM or
connect some storage
to a serverless function and
do this rapidly, quickly,
on very small things at some cost,
but not a lot of cost?, absolutely.
And that's the interesting thing I think
all of our brains are wrapped around
when I think AI,
I think one of these big dogs.
But actually there's
a bunch of very practical,
less glamorous use cases that
are super easily accessible.
And again, I've said it before, I'll say
it one more time for all the tech stuff
we're doing today, TypeScript SDK
support is exactly the same as Python's.
It's just when we want to get
to all the fancy image stuff,
which is fun sometimes,
so we're going to do it.
Question where did the first
hot dog stand appear?,
I know the answer to that one because I'm
from New York City metropolitan area.
Answer is Coney Island,
so on and so forth, and
there's confidence level in there.
Now, if you change the question to like
It doesn't really matter what I say,
it will only use
the content that it has and
it is not confident about that answer,
as you can see.
In fact, I think let's actually,
instead of even trying to
format the answer,
let's actually just print the full.
It'll be a little gnarly to look at, but
we'll actually see the full
answer in this case.
The interesting part that I want to draw
to your attention here is when it answers,
not only is it giving us a confidence
score, but it's also giving
us the index in that larger string
of where it found that answer.
And so thereby, if it's not necessarily in
there, it's got that low confidence score,
but all of its answers are legit coming
from that string to the point where it
will show you the index of where its
answer started from and where it ended.
So it is by definition locked into
whatever context you give it,
which again is either 100% not what
you want or absolutely what you want.
And probably something that
unless you have these tools,
you probably don't have access to.
Luckily, again, tiny little model that
took us about 10 seconds to download and
ran incredibly quickly
on commodity hardware.
>> Male: In a practical setting, would you
just filter out low confidence answers and
get a canned response?
>> Steve Kinney: You would set
a threshold, and that could obviously,
should you dump all of this into a
database, clearly then you could filter on
that on a simple level,
even if it was just on ingest.
A filter function will work,
you know what I mean,
if above this store,
if not, do other thing.
And so all of the programming constructs
that you have ready to rock and
roll work just as well and
become incredibly powerful.
A term that I kind of want
to stick in your head for
the vocabulary test later will be this
idea of extractive versus generative.
Maybe I'm going to expose that
I'm not very smart right now,
because I kept hearing the term generative
AI and I'm like, isn't that just AI?
I see people generating images and
they're generating text and
they're generating blog posts and they're
generating slop that seems generative.
And because those big models
that we see and know and
love depending on the day
are all generative,
we tend to think that AI
is always generative AI.
In the case of this question
answering set of models and pipeline,
it's actually extractive, we're
extracting data out of it in useful ways.
And for a lot of these, that's what we're
doing, we're extracting the sentiment out.
We're just taking given things and
getting metadata from it that a younger
version of me, to be clear, much younger
version of me, less gray version of me,
maybe try to do with a series of regexes
that I would have regretted forever.
And all of these code snippets
are very small and very lightweight,
they're going to get gnarly at one point,
the last one today.
We will not even step line by line
through the code because it's wild, but
it's more to show a concept
more than anything else.
They start small, you can get big and
complicated with them, but
we're at the beginning of our journey,
small.
But like I said, that span of a start and
end will show you where in the text.
>> Male: So for example, if you gave
Nathan's first name at the beginning of
the paragraph and then you mentioned his
last name at the end of the paragraph and
you prompted it for
like Nathan's full name.
Would it be able to do that?,
would it be able to say,
well we learned his first name up here and
his last name down here, or would it not?,
because that's not a direct
quote from the past.
>> Steve Kinney: I think for this one it
wouldn't, but like that's definitely,
do we have Nathan's full name?, [LAUGH]
does anyone know Nathan's last name?
I guess it doesn't really matter in
this sense, I'm trying to figure out how
to even like the hard part is like
tweaking the content in a way to do that,
I'm like, how would I write that sentence?
Let's definitely play around with it and
let's see, I don't think it would,
I think because it is starting with
the starting index, the ending index.
I am like at a 0.98% confidence,
if I may use the parlance,
that it won't, but
like that's a question I haven't got.
>> Male: It has to gather
text from different parts,
it has to be together in
the content is what I'm thinking.
>> Steve Kinney: But then you could think
about like, could you like, and again,
we're just using the pre baked.
These again are doing the thing
where they are grabbing a model,
they're grabbing a tokenizer,
they're grabbing all of these things,
they're grabbing it and
better and doing it all.
Like if you started to pull
apart the various pieces,
could you pull,
tweak one of these a little bit?,
my sense is probably yes.
Pitfalls, the answers down the context,
ambiguous questions,
obviously it can only find you the facts.
And with anything this is true
of the generative ones as well,
the longer the context,
the more it degrades because again,
the more things it could find,
so on and so forth.
That's true even if for
a lot of the larger tools,
one methodology that people use is called
RAG Retrieval-Augmented Generation.
If you want ChatGPT to
know about your stuff,
what you do is you take all your stuff,
you put in a vector database which you
turn into numbers, we'll see that later.
But you have to always do that in small
chunks too, and this is what I deal
with my day to day life now is what
size chunk is the right chunk.
I'm working on this thing right now,
where for a given webpage,
we want to highlight the part of the DOM
relevant to the topic you just asked, but
like, how much DOM do I want?,
what is the right size chunk?
And then you throw in things like spans
and like, the DOM tree is a mess.
But getting stuff right for
the given thing that you're doing,
of the size of the context or chunk
versus how you feed it into the system,
there's not a known right answer for that.
It depends on what you are trying to do,
the data you are working with,
the questions that you are asking.
But if you do hand it an entire book and
say, find me one fact in it,
your chances of getting what
you want is going to get worse.
And so do you break it up?, do you break
everything up by paragraph, by sentence?,
too little context, you have a problem,
too big context, you have a problem.
And it really depends on the questions
you're asking and the content itself,
do you strip content that
we think is meaningless?
And we'll see that these models do that
themselves in, like, minor ways as well,
and then it's not us to do it kind
of in the macro ways, even less.
Like, what is the best brand of mustard
for hot dog?, I don't think it's in there.